.. _7-What-is-spam-and-who-sends-it:

What is spam & who sends it?
============================

What is Spam?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spam is the use of media to send bulk unsolicited messages, unsolicited
meaning the recipient have not opted to recieve the message.Â  The most
common form of spam comes in the style of emails, while this problem is
not restricted just to that. Spam is also now seem in the form of
instant messaging SPAM, (for example MSN, ICQ, GTALK and now even SKYPE
chat.)forum posting spam, blog posting spam, SMS spam, social networking
spam (e.g Facebook, Myspace & Twitter) and even still the old fashion
way of postal spam and fax spam. Infact any way you can be contacted,
you can be spammed.

Why do spammers Spam?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In one word.... Money. For basically no cost, or very little spammers
can send out whatever messages they want to hundreds of millions of
people, all they need is one or two persons out of lets say 1000
messages sent to either click on their link, buy their product or worse
give out their private details, and the spammer is happy.

With improved technology and a very large part of the world now online
with internet access, spam, or unsolicited bulk emailing/messaging, is
now a widely used medium for committing traditional white collar crimes
including financial institution fraud, credit card fraud, and identity
theft, among others.

Spam can also act as a stepping stone to accessing computers and servers
without authorization, and sending out maliciuos links that direct to a
website usually hosted by the spammer with the sole purpose of
downloading maliciuos material onto the users computer without their
consent. Usually the malware & viruses are used to create the infamous
'Botnet', giving the sender control of a large group of computers, using
them to send out further spam and maliciuos material.

Who is behind Spam?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spammers can come in many shapes and forms, starting with the single
person who buys an email list from a third party, to the top end
fulltime illicit spammer(s), who have groups of people in many different
country sending unsolicited email to hundreds of millions of people 24
hours a day.

| ROKSO:
| The Register of Known Spam Operations is a register of spam services
  and sender that have been removed from ISP's more than 3 times for
  connections with spam.

Spamhaus ( a non profit organization who tracks internet spam
operations) believes that these persons on the list are responsible for
approximatley 80% of spam on the internet

More information about this list can be found at :

http://www.spamhaus.org/rokso/index.lasso
