.. _7-License-types-and-Restrictions:

License types & Restrictions
============================

Within SpamExperts, we always try to maximize the value-delivery to each
of our client groups. This can be recognized from how we tailor our
product offerings as well as business-models to each of our focus
markets. Moreover, we don't believe in delivering premium services at a
premium fee. Instead, we try at all times to deliver a premium service
at a highly aggressive price- point, which is still attractive enough
for us to continue maximum value creation and ongoing R&D continuation
for you.

On all the SpamExperts licenses, the general terms & conditions apply.
Furthermore, each of the focus market-sections comes with a set of
license related opportunities and restrictions:

Shared Webhosts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your core business can be qualified as providing
shared-hosting-services, you qualify for this vertical. In this
vertical, we offer bulk domain-based license-packages. These licenses
are aimed to bulk-protect shared-web hosting infrastructures, rolling
out the filtering services for all domains in the network.

Reselling of the SpamExperts inbound & outbound filtering services are
not allowed under this license model without prior written approval. For
reselling the inbound & outbound filtering services, we offer the
Reseller & Distributor model underneath.

ISPs, Telcos, & Large public organizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This vertical aims at organizations that can be principally qualified as
ISPs/Telcos & large public organizations with relatively few domains and
large volumes of users. In this vertical, we offer bulk mailbox-based
license- packages. These licenses are aimed to bulk-protect all users at
once within these specified organizations.

Reselling of the SpamExperts inbound & outbound filtering services are
generally not allowed under this license model without prior written
approval. For reselling the inbound & outbound filtering services, we
offer the Reseller & Distributor model underneath.

Resellers & Distributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case you are an IT/Software distributor, Microsoft partner, VAR, or
any other service provider looking to offer your clients/partners
email-security services as a paid-for service (either bundled with, for
example, Microsoft Exchange, or as a stand-alone product), you want to
become a SpamExperts Reseller or Distributor. In this vertical, we offer
pay-as-you-go domain-based license options.

Reselling our services and growing revenue together is the core
objective under this license.

For more information on reselling SpamExperts services please see
:ref:`here  <7-Reselling-SpamExperts-Services>`
