.. _4-View-email-headers:

View email headers
==================

AOL Email
~~~~~~~~~

The email files are in an html format. The objective is to save the file
in html format. This can be done as follows:

Open the email message you want to save, as if you were reading it -
Near the top, at the bottom of the To: / From: section, click on
"Details" to reveal the header. (you could simply copy and paste this
information also) Move mouse cursor to the top tool bar, click on "File"
Move mouse cursor to "Save as..." and click. Identify which directory
you would like to save the file in. This is done using the normal save
function of Windows. If you are not real comfortable with directories,
save the file in "Desktop". This will have the file icon visible on you
regular desktop screen and very easy to find later on. Provide a name of
the file in the "file name" box. Select the "type" as "html" if
possible. If your browser does not show "html" type, just select the
type as "All Files" and add ".html" to the file name generated in step
6, such as email.html. The "dot" before the html extension is important.
The objective of this step is to have the extension of the file as an
"html" type file. Press "Save". To forward the file to someone else (law
enforcement, lawyer, ISP):

Move cursor to the top tool bar and click on "Write" Insert the email
address you want to forward the file to Type any info in the body of the
message, if needed To add the html file you just generated in the above
steps, click on "Attachments" When the "Attachments Window" opens, click
on "Attach" Find the file in the directory window and highlight the file
name. If you followed the "Desktop" instructions, the directory name is
"c:". If there are too many files that appear, type "\*.html" in the
file name. The use of the asterisk (also called a star by some) lists
all files that are html. Click on "open" Click on "OK" Click on "Send
now" The message and attached file have now been sent. Please be aware
that AOL only keeps messages in your INBOX for two weeks, unless you
save it as NEW or save it in a separate folder in your AOL directory on
your computer.

Additionally, a screen name of TOSEMAIL1 has been identified as a source
of help for unacceptable email in the AOL system. Just enter tosemail1
in the "send to" screen. If you are outside of the AOL environment, the
address is tosemail1@aol.com.

Compuserve
~~~~~~~~~~

The default option is that full headers appear at the BOTTOM of each
received message.

Gmail
~~~~~

In GMAIL once you have the message open, use the drop down menu left of
the time of the message and choose "Show Original".

Eudora Pro
~~~~~~~~~~

When reading an email message, look at the toolbar just above the
message itself. There should be a button that reads BLAH BLAH BLAH in
black and white. Click on this and the full headers will appear. Then
select all, copy and paste into a new message to send to the offender's
ISP, or click on the forward button and the full headers will
automatically be placed in the new email message.

Excite Webmail
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

View the message Use the "save to disk" option Open the message's text
file with your favorite text editor (notepad) Copy the message from the
text editor

Free Agent/Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click on MESSAGE, then "Show Full Headers." Go to the message, click
inside the message pane, COPY, then PASTE to a text file or forward the
message to yourself or to the appropriate ISP.

Hotmail
~~~~~~~

Go to Options Go to Preferences Scroll down to Headers, then click on
Advanced Headers

Juno Version 4+
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the drop down menu "Options", choose "Email Options.." (press ctrl-E)
Under "Show Message Headers", select the "full" option. Click the OK
button to save the setting. Juno version 4+ can display MIME and HTML
email, but does not provide a way of Viewing the HTML Source for the
message within Juno. To get the full source, including HTML codes: In
the Juno mail client, click "file" and then "Save Message as Text
File.." (ctrl-T). Give the file a name which you will remember (many
people save temporary files to the desktop). Double- click on the
resulting file.

Lotus Notes 4.6 (Win 9x client)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Open the properties box on the message (in the default installation of
the Notes Client, it will be the first smart icon on the left, but you
can also right-click on the document and choose properties from that
menu) Choose the second tab on the properties box, which is a list of
fields and their contents Scroll down to the field "$additionalheaders."
Select the contents of the field and hit Ctrl+C to copy them to your
clipboard Open a new email message, put your cursor in the body of the
message, and hit Ctrl+V to paste the headers there If Notes will not
permit you to select the contents of the field, you'll have to manually
copy them to a new message - please be very careful in doing so.

Microsoft Exchange
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To read (and copy) the header using Microsoft Exchange, do the
following: Open the message in Exchange to view it. Choose "File," then
"Properties," then "Internet." The header will be visible and will be
highlighted. Simply right click and copy it. Then paste on the front of
the message and forward it to your abuse department.

Microsoft Internet Explorer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I just stumbled onto a way to attach the full header to a message.
Choose "Properties" under "File". Click on the "Details" tab. This will
show the full header. Now right click and choose "Select All". Right
click again and choose "Copy". Start a new message, right click again,
and choose "Paste". This will paste the entire header into this new (and
temporary) message. Copy the header from the new message and paste it
back onto the original. The paste command doesn't work directly on the
original message. This isn't elegant, but it seems to work.

Microsoft Internet News
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For those people who use Microsoft's Internet News, simply (while
viewing the message) click on File, Properties, then click on the
Details tab. Sending complaints to root@someisp.com will also work. Some
other addresses are support@, webmaster@, and newsmaster@

Microsoft Outlook 98, Outlook 2000, Outlook 2003
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Open the message and select View, then Options from the drop-down menus.
Near the bottom of the screen you'll see a section titled INTERNET
HEADERS. You can copy the headers and paste them into an email elsewhere
to get them to the proper people.

Microsoft Outlook 2007
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Double click on the email message so that it is open in its own window.
Outlook 2007 uses a watered-down version of Word 2007 as the email
editor and with it comes the new ribbon user interface. Thus, the
"Options" feature is no longer under "View", as with previous versions
of Outlook, and takes some hunting to find it, but it is there. It is on
the "Message" tab, in the "Options" block, which is the fourth block
over. To the right of "Options", there is a little button with an arrow
in it. Click on it and you have the message options menu with the
internet headers in the bottom section. Select this information and
copy/paste it as needed.

If you don't have the message yet open, which is better yet, and you
wish to see the header, right click on the message in your inbox and
choose "Message Options". You will be looking at the headers at this
point.

Microsoft Outlook 2010
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Double click on the email message so it opens in its own window. Now
click on "File", then "Properties".Â  The email header is found under the
"Internet Headers" option.

Microsoft Outlook Express 5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There's an even easier solution to expanding Microsoft's Outlook Express
5 headers so that you can copy and paste it to another window:

Right click on the message and select Properties. Choose the Details tab
and select the Message Source Button. Select All (CTRL + A) and Copy
(CTRL + C). Close the Message Source window and the Properties window.
Select New Mail and position your cursor in the body of the email. Paste
(CTRL + V) the copied information. Send the email to the ISP where the
SPAM/UCE originated from.

Additional Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here's a tip to simplify the process of getting full headers when using
Outlook Express 5 and Windows 98 (don't know about other versions of OE)

Instead of selecting the message, right-clicking properties, clicking
details, then message source, simply select the message and press
Ctrl-F3. Then press Ctrl-A followed by Ctrl-C. (Ctrl-F3 takes care of
all the steps necessary to get to the full header. Ctrl-A selects all
the text and Ctrl-C copies it to the clipboard.)

Now start a new message or just forward the original message (which
takes less time than opening a new one) to the originating ISP.

Mozilla Thunderbird
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To read the email headers in the Mozilla Thunderbird email client,
simply open the email. On the menu bar, go to View \| Headers and select
"All". The headers are immediately displayed. The menu choices and the
results are shown in this hyperlinked image.

Netscape Messenger
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To read the email header in Netscape Messenger (the email reader
supplied with Netscape communicator) press Ctrl-U. A new window will
open with the full message including the complete header. To copy this
to a email message press Ctrl-A to highlight the entire message then
Ctrl-C to copy it. Open the email message you want to send. Using the
mouse, place the cursor in the body of the message, select edit / paste
as quoted, from the menu bar.

Netscape News
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I found a simple way to view the headers of news spam in Netscape.
Simply click View-> document source when you're looking at the offending
item. The full headers are then visible.

Newswatcher
~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want the full headers on Newswatcher, go to File, choose
Preferences, and check the Show Article Headers box.

Operamail
~~~~~~~~~

Choose Options and enable [x] Show Message Headers in Body of Message

Pegasus
~~~~~~~

In Pegasus, just hit Ctrl-H (or the backspace key) while reading a
message. You will see the full headers. Do this *before* hitting "F"
(for Forward), and the full headers will be forwarded, too. (True for
Pegasus 2.53, at least)

Pine
~~~~

From the main Pine menu:

Type **S** for Setup then **C** for Config.

Use the space bar and down arrow to scroll until you reach the option [
] enable-full-header-cmd, then type X in the box to toggle the option
on. Type E to exit Config, and Y to save changes. The next time you read
a message, type H and the full headers will be displayed at the top of
the message. Type H again to hide the headers.

Unix
~~~~

I think I've figured out one way of of getting the full headers on Unix.
We received a spam and the message had just the usual "from," "to,"
"date," "subject" headers. But when I saved the message in a directory,
then used the "type" command or printed it out, full headers magically
appeared, showing where they were really posting from.

WebTV
~~~~~

While viewing the email, hit "Forward" on the sidebar. Address the
document to yourself. Completely erase the subject line. Put your cursor
on the first line of the "body" (text area); Hit "Return" (enter) twice.
Your cursor should now be on the 3rd line of the text area. Type any
"Alt" character on this line; DO NOT HIT "RETURN" Cut and Paste the
"Alt" character onto the subject line: (CMD+"A"), (CMD+"X"), (CMD +"V")
The "Alt" character should "jump" down to the message text-area. Hit
"Send"; open the received mail.

mailx
~~~~~

Some more header info for some Unix mail programs. Nearly nobody uses
mail and mailx any more, but they're available on almost all UNIX
systems, so let's start with those. You can exit your current mail
program without changing the mailbox and then look at the mail message
using mail or mailx. Showing a mail message with the Print or P command
displays all of the header lines. Note capital P -- it's important.
Saving the current mail message with the saveretain command saves all of
the header lines. (On some systems, Save or S -- note the capitals! --
does this too).

ELM
~~~

There are lots of other mail readers; the one I use is ELM. In ELM, you
display the headers for the current message with the H command.
