.. _1-Fair-Use-Policy:

Fair Use Policy
===============

Fair Usage Policy (FUP)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Domain Based Licenses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All our domain-based licenses come with a general Fair Use Policy (FUP).
This FUP restricts the filtering of single domains with over 1.000 email
addresses.

In case you would like to filter domains with more than 1.000 email
addresses, please contact your account manager to discuss a **custom
offer**. We maintain highly competitive pricing models across the board,
aiming to accommodate all our different partners and clients with their
email security needs at fair rates. Our domain-based pricing models
can't be sustained when supporting parties with more than 1.000 email
addresses per domain. In case you have doubts or questions regarding the
Fair Use Policy, please contact sales@spamexperts.com for further
information and details regarding the FUP applicable to your license.

Unlimited Server Based Licenses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All our unlimited Local Cloud licenses do not limit the amount of users
or domains that can be filtered over the Local Cloud solution. They are
charged at a fixed fee per (virtual) server in the Local Cloud (minimum
of 2 servers) and include a FUP on the hardware of these (virtual)
servers. In this "unlimited" model, each server is restricted to have a
maximum of 8 physical cores. Hyper-threading is allowed.

If more physical cores are added per server, partials or the full 8
cores will be counted as a separate unlimited server license. This will
be done on an aggregate level. For example, a cluster having 2 nodes of
each 12 cores, will be counted as three full servers in this licensing
model (24/8 = 3). Similarly, a cluster having 3 nodes of each 12 cores,
will be counted as five full servers in this licensing model (36/8 = 4.5
= 5).

Other/ General
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you have a mailbox based license with us, we don't apply any specific
fair- use limits. In general, all our licenses however come with a
'generic' fair use policy where we assume your mail traffic is 'normal'.
In case we would spot some extraordinary traffic/ license usage of some
sort, we would contact you to find out what is going on and attempt to
find a workable solution for both sides. We always reserve the right to
close down accounts with extraordinary license usage.

Exceeding FUP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case our systems detected over-usage of the Fair Use Policy, you will
be contacted by one of our account managers to upgrade your license to
the next license-size which fits your FUP requirements and/or provide
you with a custom offer.

If you do not wish to upgrade your license, you can reduce your
license-usage by potentially reducing the amount of domains filtered.
Not taking action after receiving an upgrade request due to exceeding
the FUP may result in account suspension and disruptions of your mail
flows.
