.. _1-Privacy-protection-and-Hosted-Cloud-server-locations:

Privacy protection and Hosted Cloud server locations
====================================================

With the recent public revelations about government surveillance of
internet and email traffic, we regularly get questions about how clients
can further protect themselves with the SpamExperts Hosted Cloud
infrastructure.

For redundancy reasons and optimal usage of the world-wide internet
networks, SpamExperts uses a global network of servers, including
locations within the EU, the US, and Asia.

The software on these servers is fully controlled by SpamExperts, and
(as long as the sending server/recipient server supports it), all
traffic to and from the SpamExperts servers is properly encrypted to
ensure nobody external can read the emails in transit. SpamExperts does
not retain a copy of your legitimate emails on any server (unless the
destination server is unreachable). **All archiving, logging and
quarantine data is always stored explicitly in the EU.**

SpamExperts is a company legally registered in The Netherlands,
therefore any governmental requests to get access to certain data always
has to originate from the Dutch authorities.

The Netherlands has a clear legal system on the protection of data, and
is one of the most reliable locations to be located at legally.

SpamExperts respects the privacy of its users and will therefore always
use the law to the fullest extent to protect its clients.

On request, it is possible to provide "EU-only" or “US-only” MX records
for our Hosted Cloud solution, however you'd lose part of the additional
redundancy and increased stability SpamExperts can offer with its
current setup. Also that would not further enhance your security, as
**the non-EU servers are also protected under the Dutch law.**
