.. _6-Archiving-legislation-and-compliance:

Archiving legislation and compliance
====================================

Email archiving compliance is a hot topic of debate. There is no
universal rule/ standard when it comes to archiving email. There are
multiple factors to be taken into account, among which the most
important ones are industry and geographically related.

Specific industries such as financial services, healthcare, and
governmental organizations are often enough more regulated than others
and these organizations need to comply with specific industry rules
regarding document protection, archiving and retrieval of data.

Many companies wrongly assume that if their business is not part of a
clearly regulated industry, then email archiving is not a compulsory
procedure. What is overlooked is the fact that nearly all organizations
must comply with general regulations, be it employment laws, financial
laws, labor standards which impose proper electronic data storage and
protection for a determined time frame. As an example, in the US the
changes of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP) in 2009 have had
a widespread impact on email storage and retention policies. The Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure apply to any organization that has the
potential to be involved in a litigation. Similar regulation exist for
most other nations also.

These changes are forcing many firms, from virtually all industries, to
implement corporate email archiving systems in order to quickly and
adequately respond to e-Discovery notices. The implementation of an
email archiving system is the only cost effective and compliant
solution. Data is never lost and companies benefit of simple search and
retrieval tools to meet the legal and compliance challenges facing all
industries today.

The law has caught up with the high-tech era. Companies of any size and
in any field of activity are required by the law to treat the storage
and retrieval of email same as any other records of business.
Organizations have no choice but to comply and a professional email
archiving system is the solution.

Email Compliance Laws & Regulations – Overview
----------------------------------------------

The following information is intended to be a summary of compliance
regulations concerning records of incoming and outgoing email in
different industries and geographical areas. There are over 1000
worldwide institutions involved in issuing such regulations and
procedures. The list below is not meant to be comprehensive, being
limited to the most impacting Anglo-Saxon related legislation – often
serving as a basis for the international rules and regulations.

Financial
~~~~~~~~~

The Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act came into force in 2002 and introduced
major changes to the regulation of financial practice and corporate
governance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is mandatory and all
organizations with operations in the US, large and small. The act
establishes rules about records of financial documents and availability
for public disclosure. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires auditors to
retain auditing information for a period of 7 years (workpapers,
memoranda, correspondence, communications, and electronic records,
including email).

Investments and Securities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is setting the minimum
requirements with respect to the records that broker-dealers must keep
in the US, and how long those records and other documents relating to a
broker- dealer's business must be. The Securities Exchange Commission
and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) have passed as
well regulations on how member companies must archive, index, store and
retrieve electronic communications including email. According to the
SEC, archives must hold electronic data for periods between 3 to 6
years.

FINRA is the largest independent regulator for all securities firms
doing business in the United States. The FINRA rulebook currently
consists of both NASD Rules and certain NYSE Rules that FINRA has
incorporated. FINRA has developed clear guidelines to make registered
representatives aware of the compliance requirements and potential
liabilities when using the Web and electronic communications for
business purposes. In accordance, firms must retain all incoming and
outgoing communications related to their firms business as such, for a
period of 3 years from the date of last use.

Healthcare
~~~~~~~~~~

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), was
passed by the U.S. Congress in 1996 establishing the rules of
confidentiality, integrity and availability of patient information which
is no longer just a best practice for healthcare organizations, it's a
legal requirement. It advocates the adoption of electronic transmission
of patient health data through the use of security measures like
encryption to protect confidentiality of health information while being
transmitted over electronic networks. Practically, all organizations
that deal with patients’ electronic healthcare information must comply.
This includes (but is not limited to): clinics and hospitals, healthcare
insurers, physicians' offices, public health authorities, pharmacies,
donation banks, and long-term care facilities. Also included are
entities that handle, exchange or store private electronic health
information, such as life insurers, IT systems vendors, universities. In
many cases, HIPAA provisions have generated extensive changes in medical
record keeping and billing systems.

Banking
~~~~~~~

The Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (GLBA), fully effective since 2001, requires
financial institutions to develop a written information security plan
that describes how the company is prepared for, and plans to continue to
protect clients’ nonpublic personal information, requesting that banks
should implement an electronic retention system ensuring security and
compliance. The provisions include: Financial Privacy Rule (privacy
notices describing how they use and disclose consumers' personal
information), Safeguards Rule (reasonable policies and procedures to
ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information) and
Pretexting Protection (preventing someone to gain access to personal
information without the proper authority to do so).

Legal
~~~~~

The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP), last updated in 2009,
govern the conduct of all civil suits brought in district courts. Many
US states have also implemented their own e-Discovery requirements based
on these FRCP rules. Since the FRCP changes, the discovery of email for
litigation has become a critical component of legal inquiries.
Organizations that are unable to meet the requirements may suffer severe
fines and the risk of unfavorable court rulings.

Public Institutions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Freedom of Information Act is regulating the general right of access
to information held by public authorities and gives people the right to
request information kept by government and state institutions. Over 90
countries around the world have implemented some form of such
legislation. FOIA enforces email compliance and the obligation of public
authorities to respond to internal investigation and FOIA information
requests promptly and efficiently.
